Innovation doesn’t come in a linear pattern.
It comes in waves.
And each of these waves is powered by a breakthrough technology.
There was the age of the printing press, the steam engine, electricity, the transportation age, the first computers and, today, data and cloud infrastructure.
Each of these inventions triggered thousands of innovations, changing what's possible in life and work.
Consider the invention of the printing press.
It was revolutionary because it gave everyone access to books, encyclopedias, and even playing cards in their daily lives.
It also led to a broader recognition of intellectual property through widely distributed patents, which in turn prepared the world for the first industrial revolution.
There was no turning back!
Steam-powered engines brought us cars and trains which then radically transformed the transportation industry; allowing businesses to produce and transport goods at scale.
The entire Industrial Revolution resulted from new technologies that came together and facilitated new ways of working.
In the same way, electricity brought us the light bulb, household appliances and eventually the computer.
What the printing press, the steam engine and electricity all have in common is that they’re examples of
a paradigm shift: a fundamental and irreversible change in the way that humans work and engage with the world.
How do these examples relate to cloud technology?
Well, we’re right in the middle of another paradigm shift: one of digital transformation.
Cloud technology is transforming how organizations create value how people work, and ultimately, how people live.
It’s the catalyst for thousands of innovations that change how we navigate the world, how we interact with media, how we diagnose illness, or how we combat environmental issues.
Digital transformation, as a term, has become prominent over the past few years.
But what are the key components of a digital transformation, how do they relate to the use of cloud technologies, and why so many organizations pursue it?
At Google Cloud, we define digital transformation as when an organization uses new digital technologies, such as public, private, and hybrid
cloud platforms to create or modify business processes, culture, and customer experiences to meet the needs of changing business and market dynamics.
Organizations choose digital transformation frameworks to foster innovation, generate new revenue streams, , and adapt quickly to market changes and customer needs.
Digital transformation helps organizations change how they operate and redefine relationships with their customers, employees, and partners by modernizing their applications, creating new services, and delivering value.
For that reason, rapid advances in digital technology are redefining every industry.
Many vehicles are now software-driven, and they receive regular updates much like a laptop or phone.
In chemistry, big data and artificial intelligence (or AI) facilitates drug discovery.
Financial service institutions use cloud’s vast computing power to provide better insights than ever before.
With smart analytics that are increasingly embedded in everything and devices that generate exponential amounts of data traditional on-premises computing solutions can no longer suffice.
As business innovation becomes more driven by software, the IDC FutureScape report predicts that over 50% of all IT spending will go toward digital transformation and innovation by 2024.
In fact, IDC also predicts that, by 2025, more than 90% of new enterprise apps will have AI embedded within them.
Leading organizations will rely more heavily on AI to launch new business models, create more customized experiences, and optimize operations to reduce costs.
Understanding the scale and power of the cloud is more critical than ever before.
